A reflection on Patterns Data Systems, Inc. 

July 16, 2025

I started Patterns in May 2021 with an ex-colleague from Square, Ken Van Haren. Ken had the idea for a Github for data and an early prototype he called Snapdata that let you build an entire data stack in a web app. With Ken's prototype and a shared visino, we raised a few hundred grand from family and friends and got accepted into YCombinator. Here's our product and founder video that we applied to YC with: 

https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/1yZc7zwBRt1iyZdBCpSnhWOkC4VEfAtf-

Hey, YC, I'm Ken. Hey, I'm Chris. We're the co-founders of Snapdata. Snapdata is your entire data workflow in one web app. I've worked as a data scientist for 15 years at startups, as a PhD student in statistics, at big companies like Google and Square. And at every one of those places, I've wondered why there's no one built tool I want. And that's a simple, integrated app that lets me play with data and productionize data workflows all in one place. Right now, to do that, you have to sign up for three or four different clunky enterprise apps-- Cygnet, DBT, Fivetran, Looker-- and the Cloud Database Service and connect them all together in this disjointed experience that takes weeks and lots of back and forth with IT to execute. Snapdata hides all that mess and lets a single analyst at a company build an entire data stack and workflow in 30 seconds. I've been an analyst at a couple of different tech companies before, both Cover and Square. And we've been at this for a month now and have already shipped a beta to some live customers. We have big vision and believe YC will be crucial to helping us execute and accelerate that.

Summer 2021 - YCombinator and Seed Funding

With COVID in full-swing, YC was remote. We seriously debated doing YC, we thought that the equity was expensive, that the program had become diluted and potentially a negative signalling effect, and that the remote nature of the program would lead to a worse experience. We ended up deciding to do YC because we figured anything that would improve our startups probability of success was worth it and given demo day, work at a startup, bookface, and the founder network I'm really happy we did. 

The program itself was less than ideal, remote and scaled, we didn't feel like we got the full YC experience. The program itself runs for three months where you work to get as much product and customer traction as possible which culimates in demo day where you broadcast your startups vision and traction to every investor in the world. By the end we raised $3m from various angel investors with the largest check coming from a seed fund, Uncommon Capital. 

